# Introduction

The WeeWX weather system is written in Python and runs on Linux, MacOSX,
Solaris, and *BSD.  It collects data from many different types of weather
stations and sensors, then generates plots, HTML pages, and monthly and
yearly summary reports. It can push plots, pages, and reports to a web
server, and data data to many different online weather services.

See the WeeWX website for [examples](https://weewx.com/showcase.html) of web
sites generated by WeeWX, and a [map](https://weewx.com/stations.html) of
stations using WeeWX.

See the [hardware list](https://weewx.com/hardware.html) for a complete list
of supported stations, and for pictures to help identify your hardware!  The
[hardware comparison](https://weewx.com/hwcmp.html) shows specifications for
many different types of hardware, including some not yet supported by WeeWX.


## Installation

Install WeeWX releases from repositories for Debian, Red Hat, and SuSE systems
using `apt`, `yum/dnf`, or `zypper`, from pypi using `pip`, or run WeeWX
directly from source.

The installers for Debian, Red Hat, and SUSE use the conventions and software
management tools for their respective operating system; these are the quickest
way to get up and running.

The pypi installer will work on any operating system; use this approach for
macOS or one of the *BSDs, or if you are using an older operating system.
This is also a good approach if you plan to do a lot of customization, or if
you are developing a driver, skin, or other extension.

If you are working on the WeeWX core, or if you want to experiment with
code that is under development, then you will probably want to run from
a git clone of the source tree.

* [Debian](quickstarts/debian)
* [Redhat](quickstarts/redhat)
* [SUSE](quickstarts/suse)
* [pip](quickstarts/pip) (any operating system with Python 3.7+)
* [run from source](quickstarts/source)

See the [user guide](usersguide/installing-weewx) for detailed instructions.


## Documentation

WeeWX includes extensive documentation, and the WeeWX developers work hard to
keep it relevant and up to date.  If you have questions about how WeeWX works,
how to customize reports, how to change date/time formats, which units are
supported, how to translate WeeWX into your language, how to integrate WeeWX
with other applications, how to make WeeWX work with new hardware, ... please
consult the documentation first.  This documentation includes:

* [User's guide](usersguide) - installation, getting started, troubleshooting
* [Customization guide](custom) - reports, plots, localization, formatting, extensions
* [Utilities](utilities) - tools to manage stations, reports, and data
* [Hardware guide](hardware) - how to configure hardware, features of supported hardware
* [Notes for developers](devnotes)
* [Upgrade guide](upgrading)


## Support

Please first try to solve any problems yourself by reading the documentation
listed above.  If that fails, try the answers to frequently-asked questions,
the user contributions in the WeeWX Wiki, or the WeeWX user group.


### FAQ

The Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) is contributed by WeeWX users.  It
contains pointers to more information for problems and questions most
frequently asked in the WeeWX forums.

https://github.com/weewx/weewx/wiki/WeeWX-Frequently-Asked-Questions


### Wiki

The wiki content is contributed by WeeWX users. It contains suggestions and
experiences with different types of hardware, skins, extensions to WeeWX,
and other useful tips and tricks.

https://github.com/weewx/weewx/wiki


### Forums

There are two forums. 

- [weewx-user](https://groups.google.com/group/weewx-user) is for general
  issues such as installation, sharing skins and templates, reporting
  unexpected behavior, and suggestions for improvement.

- [weewx-development](https://groups.google.com/group/weewx-development) is
  for discussions about developing drivers, extensions, or working on the core
  code.


## Licensing and Copyright

WeeWX is licensed under the GNU Public License v3.

© [Copyright](copyright) 2009-2023 Thomas Keffer (<tkeffer@gmail.com>)
and Matthew Wall
